ActivtyPresenter - Frequently Asked Questions
---------------------------------------------

Version 0.2 2022-04-28


Archives
--------

A1. How do I open and close an archive?
  At the main page, press "OPEN" and select an archive file (.aaz) in the file-
  browser. The archive appears as a green box at the top right corner named as 
  the archive top level folder name. 
  The content of the folder can be expanded by pressing the folder.
  Multiple archives can be opened at the same time by pression "OPEN".
  An archive can be closed by right-clicking the folder name and selecting 
  "CLOSE".

A2. How do I save an archive?
  Data is saved in archives as a single file named aaz. Select "SAVE PROJECT" 
  in the main menu to save data. The current folders and data will be shown in 
  the left window, while the stucture of the new archive is shown in the right 
  window. To define a new archive you must start by adding a new top level 
  folder by dragging from "Add Folder" to the right window. 
  You may now add new folders or drag data from the left window to the new 
  archive. There are three types of folders: standard folders, data folders 
  and video folders. Standard folders may contain all type of folders, while 
  data folders must contain data-files and video folders must contain video
  files. An archive cannot be saved if there are any empty data or video
  folders. To rename a folder right click the folder-name. 
  When the folder structure is complete press "Save" and specify the location  
  and name for the archive. 
  Note: Saving an archive may take some time, observe the progress bar to check 
  when saving is completed. The ActivityPresenter application should not be 
  terminated before saving is complete.  
  Note also that the saved archive is not automatically opened in 
  ActivityPresenter. To work with the new archive you must manually open the 
  new archive.  

A3. How is data stored in an archive?
  Data is stored in an uncompressed zip file named aaz (AutoActiveZip). Sensor 
  data is stored in parquet files, while videos are stored in their original 
  format, as they are already compressed. For further information, please see
  the "Data Handling" section in the paper.md file in the repository:
  https://github.com/SINTEF/AutoActive-ActivityPresenter/blob/develop/Paper/paper.md

A4. Can I modify an archive?
  To modify an archive you must create a new archive and copy and modify data 
  in the new archive. When a archive is saved, it becomes immutable and is 
  assigned a unique identifier. This allow sessions to be based on previous 
  sessions, and enables traceability and reproducibility as analysed information 
  is referenced to the session where the data for that analysis was stored.

A5. Can I open multiple archives?
  Yes, multiple archives can be opened and combined.


Import
------

I1. How do I import data in ActivtyPresenter?
  Data can be imported by selecting "IMPORT FILE" and selecting time-series data 
  or video files. ActivtyPresenter will automatically detect the format of 
  supported data types. The time resolution must be in milli- or micro-seconds  
  and is specified in a checkbox during import.

I2. What data formats are supported by ActivityPresenter?
  ActivityPresenter supports the following formats:
    - Comman separated values (csv)
    - Excel (xlsx)
    - GaitUp movement data (bin and Excel results)
    - Garmin (tcx)
    - Catapult (csv)
    - json (annotations)
    - MQTT (TBD - Sigurd)
  Data import is plug-in based, hence new formats can be added without deep 
  knowledge of the complete application.

I3. What video formats are supported by ActivityPresenter?
  ActivityPresenter support video formatted as mov, avi, mkv, mp4, mts.
  (TBD - Sigurd, bør vi si noe om codex her?)

I4. How is csv files imported and how is the timestamp converted?
  For csv files ActivtyPresenter will search for a column named "time" or 
  "epoch" and use this as the time basis. Time may be specified in milli- or 
  micro-seconds, and if specified as epoch it will be converted to date and 
  time. The import function will skip a header in the csv file before importing
  data. 
  For further details see the source file GenericCsvParser.cs


Main page
---------

M1. How do I save and recall views?
  You may Save and Load views by right clicking the top level folder for 
  archives at the right hand side at the "Main Page". 

M2. Can I load a view from another archive?
  Yes, view can be used interchangable. However if the specified data is not 
  present in the current dataset a message will be printed and that part of the 
  view will be skipped.  (TBD - Sigurd, noe med rekkefølgen her?)


M3. What keyboard shortcuts can be used?
  The following keyboard shortcuts are available:
     Spacebar             - Play and Stop
     Left                 - Step 1/30s back (TBD -Sigurd)
     Right                - Step 1/30s forward (TBD Sigurd)
     Shift + Left         - Step 1/2s back (TBD -Sigurd)
     Shift + Right        - Step 1/2s forward (TBD -Sigurd)
     Ctrl + Left          - Step 1/2s back (TBD -Sigurd)
     Ctrl + Right         - Step 1/2s forward (TBD -Sigurd)
     0                    - remove annotation 
     1 to 9               - add annontation 1 to 9
     Shift + 1 to 9 and 0 - add annotation 10 to 19  
     Ctrl + 1 to 9 and 0  - add annotation 20 to 29  

M4. When right clicking a dataset one may select Timeline, what does it mean?
  A single data line may be shown as a complete timeline at the bottom of the
  main page.

M6. What is the meaning of the numbers at the top right corner of video view?
  The top number shows the time difference between the current video view and
  the data view for the current frame. The bottom number shows .. (TBD - Sigurd)   

M7. Can I change the view for the datalines?
  Yes, by pressing the three dots "..." at the dataline you may:
     - remove the window 
     - remove a line
     - select (TBD - Sigurd)
     - autoscale common - scale all lines in window to a common base
     - autoscale independent - scale all lines in this view independently
     - freeze scaling for line
     - force y scale to whole numbers
     - find optimal y resolution (TBD - Sigurd)
     - scatter plot
     - column plot
     
M8. What does the time shown at the right and left bottom side mean?
  The time at the left show the time at the current positon while the time
  at the left shows the time at the end of the dataset.

Annotations
-----------

ANx. What is the purpose of an annotation
  Annotations are used to mark specific part of video and data and is useful as
  input for machine learning and data analysis.

AN1. How do I add an annotation?
  An annotation is added at the current position in the main view by pressing 
  one of the keys 1 to 9, shift together with 1 to 9 and 0, or CTRL together 
  with 1 to 9 and 0 giving annotations from 1 to 29. 
  Pressing 0 will delete an annotation. 

AN2. How do I view annotations?
  Annotations appears at the bootom of the first data-line. A new dataline is
  created as AnnotationProvider and may be viewed as a separate window.

AN3. Can I name and describe an annotation?
  Annotations may be named by pressing "Settings" followed by "Annotations". 
  Each annotation is mapped from the ID and can be given a Name, a Tag and a 
  Comment. If a Tag is given this is shown for the annotation at the Main Page.

AN4. How many different annotations can I add
  You may define 29 indvidual annotations.
  
AN5. Can annotations be accessed in the Matlab or Python toolbox?
  Yes, annotations may be accessed from the toolboxes. Please see examples in
  the toolboxes. 

Settings
--------

SE1. Can I change the scaling of the datalines?
  Yes, by changing the Window Length in the Settings menu you may change the
  scaling of datalines.

SE2. Can I change the playback speed for video and datalines?
  The playback speed can be set to 1x, 2x, 5x, 0.1x, 0.25x and 0.5x in the 
  settings menu.

Synchronization
---------------

S1. I have a set with synchronized GaitUp IMU files I would like to synchronize 
with a video. How can I avoid synchronizing every GaitUp file with the video?

  GaitUp IMU data is stored in a set of binary files. These are synchromized
  towards each other from the GaitUp software. Hence when synchronizing towards 
  a video in ActivtyPresenter it is recommended to start with a GaitUp datafile 
  and synchronize the video towards the GaitUp data. 
  You may synchronize starting with a video, however you must the apply the 
  same offset to all GaitUp data files. 

S2 TBD 


Head-to-head
------------

H1. What is the purpose of the head2head view
TBD

Configuration 
-------------
  TBD - hva menes med configuration?

Matlab toolbox
--------------


Python toolbox
--------------


Installation
------------


Examples
--------

E1. Where to look for samples?